README.md, before:

# BASE EFI Intel Westmere (HEDT)

Note|Description
:----|:----
Initial macOS Support|OS X 10.5.6, Leopard.

- Opencore version: 0.7.6
- Release date: 06/12/2021

# Basic Steps

1. [Download](https://github.com/luchina-gabriel/BASE-EFI-INTEL-HEDT-1STGEN-X59-WESTMERE/releases) the latest release;
2. Includes **additional** kexts (for ethernet, audio, etc);
3. Include the **necessary** ACPI patches (.aml);
4. Review the special notes;
5. Generate and complete your SMBIOS infos - **ALWAYS**;
6. Adjust your BIOS;
7. Install macOS and enjoy :)

# Features
- [x] Very light, very clean, basic files for your Hackintosh.
- [x] Made with latest OpenCore versions.
- [x] Two editions - *Release* and *Debug* Edition.
- [x] Updated montly with refresh versions of Opencore.

# Kexts included (**Required**)

Kext|Description
:----|:----
[Lilu.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/Lilu/releases)|Patch many processes, required for AppleALC, WhateverGreen, VirtualSMC and many other kexts.
[SMCProcessor.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/VirtualSMC/releases)|Used for monitoring CPU temperature, doesn't work on AMD CPU based systems.
[SMCSuperIO.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/VirtualSMC/releases)|Used for monitoring fan speed, doesn't work on AMD CPU based systems.
[VirtualSMC.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/VirtualSMC/releases)|Emulates the SMC chip found on real macs, without this macOS will not boot.<br>Alternative is FakeSMC which can have better or worse support, most commonly used on legacy hardware.
[WhateverGreen.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/WhateverGreen/releases)|Used for graphics patching, DRM fixes, board ID checks, framebuffer fixes, etc; all GPUs benefit from this kext.
[CpuTscSync.kext](https://github.com/lvs1974/CpuTscSync/releases)|Needed for syncing TSC on some of Intel's HEDT and server motherboards, without this macOS may be extremely slow or even unbootable.

# Other Kexts (not included)

Kexts for support Audio, Wifi, Ethernets and other devices.

### Audio

Kext|Description
:----|:----
[AppleALC.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/AppleALC/releases)|Used for AppleHDA patching, allowing support for the majority of on-board sound controllers.<br>AMD 15h/16h may have issues with this and Ryzen/Threadripper systems rarely have mic support.
[VoodooHDA.kext](https://sourceforge.net/projects/voodoohda/)|Audio for FX systems and front panel Mic+Audio support for Ryzen system, do not mix with AppleALC.<br>Audio quality is noticeably worse than AppleALC on Zen CPUs.

### Ethernet
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[IntelMausi.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/IntelMausi/releases)|Intel's 82578, 82579, I217, I218 and I219 NICs are officially supported.
[AtherosE2200Ethernet.kext](https://github.com/Mieze/AtherosE2200Ethernet/releases)|Required for Atheros and Killer NICs.<br>**Note**: Atheros Killer E2500 models are actually Realtek based, for these systems please use RealtekRTL8111 instead.
[RealtekRTL8111.kext](https://github.com/Mieze/RTL8111_driver_for_OS_X/releases)|For Realtek's Gigabit Ethernet.<br>Sometimes the latest version of the kext might not work properly with your Ethernet. If you see this issue, try older versions.
[LucyRTL8125Ethernet.kext](https://www.insanelymac.com/forum/files/file/1004-lucyrtl8125ethernet/)|For Realtek's 2.5Gb Ethernet.
[SmallTreeIntel82576.kext](https://github.com/khronokernel/SmallTree-I211-AT-patch/releases)| Required for I211 NICs, based off of the SmallTree kext but patched to support I211.<br>Required for most AMD boards running Intel NICs.

### WiFi and Bluetooth
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[AirportItlwm](https://github.com/OpenIntelWireless/itlwm/releases)|Adds support for a large variety of Intel wireless cards and works natively in recovery thanks to IO80211Family integration.
[IntelBluetoothFirmware](https://github.com/OpenIntelWireless/IntelBluetoothFirmware/releases)|Adds Bluetooth support to macOS when paired with an Intel wireless card.
[AirportBrcmFixup](https://github.com/acidanthera/AirportBrcmFixup/releases)|Used for patching non-Apple/non-Fenvi Broadcom cards, will not work on Intel, Killer, Realtek, etc.<br>For Big Sur see [Big Sur Known Issues](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/extras/big-sur#known-issues) for extra steps regarding AirPortBrcm4360 drivers.
[BrcmPatchRAM](https://github.com/acidanthera/BrcmPatchRAM/releases)|Used for uploading firmware on Broadcom Bluetooth chipset, required for all non-Apple/non-Fenvi Airport cards.

### Others
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[NVMeFix](https://github.com/acidanthera/NVMeFix/releases)|Used for fixing power management and initialization on non-Apple NVMe.
[SATA-Unsupported](https://github.com/khronokernel/Legacy-Kexts/blob/master/Injectors/Zip/SATA-unsupported.kext.zip)|Adds support for a large variety of SATA controllers, mainly relevant for laptops which have issues seeing the SATA drive in macOS.<br>We recommend testing without this first.
[AppleMCEReporterDisabler](https://github.com/acidanthera/bugtracker/files/3703498/AppleMCEReporterDisabler.kext.zip)|Useful starting with Catalina to disable the AppleMCEReporter kext which will cause kernel panics on AMD CPUs.<br>Recommended for dual-socket systems (ie. Intel Xeons).
[RestrictEvents](https://github.com/acidanthera/RestrictEvents/releases)|Better experience with unsupported processors like AMD, Disable MacPro7,1 memory warnings and provide upgrade to macOS Monterey via Software Updates when available.

# ACPI Tables - High End Desktop

These files are **MUST** be included in your EFI's ACPI directory. We recommend that you use the **MANUAL** method, but for a first test you can use the prebuild versions.

Table|Description
:----|:----
SSDT-EC|[Manual](https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/Universal/ec-methods/manual.html) \| [Prebuilt](https://github.com/dortania/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/raw/master/extra-files/compiled/SSDT-EC-DESKTOP.aml) \| [Details](https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/Universal/ec-fix.html)

### Dumping your DSDT in Windows Environment
[Download iASL Compiler ACPI Tools](https://acpica.org/downloads/binary-tools)
<br><br>
Open the CMD in the directory where the *ACPI Tools* was extracted. (*Command Prompt*) in **Administrator Mode**:
```
path/to/acpidump.exe -b -n DSDT -z
move dsdt.dat DSDT.aml
```

Decompile DSDT.aml:
```
path/to/iasl.exe path/to/DSDT.aml
```
*File DSDT.dsl will generated. Use this for generate YOUR ACPI Patches.* 

Compile DSDT.dsl:
```
path/to/iasl.exe path/to/DSDT.dsl
```
*File APCPI_FILE_PATCHED.aml will generated.*

# Attention

Update **config.plist** in PlatformInfo > Generic with YOUR informations.
<br><br>
*1. MLB (Board Serial)
<br>
2. ROM (Mac Address)
<br>
3. SystemSerialNumber (Serial)
<br>
4. SystemUUID (SmUUID)*

Please use [*genSMBIOS*](https://github.com/corpnewt/GenSMBIOS/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) for generate values for above itens.
<br>
Please use [*ProperTree*](https://github.com/corpnewt/ProperTree/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) for configure/edit your config.plist.

# Compatible SMBIOS

SMBIOS|Description
:----|:----
MacPro5,1|Mojave and older
MacPro6,1|Catalina and newer

# Catalina and older versions of macOS

- Please configure `MinDate` and `MinVersion` in UEFI > APFS to `-1`;
- Please configure `SecureBootModel` in Misc > Security to `j137`;

\* *Without above settings, macOS will not be able to boot.*

# Special notes

- USB port mapping is **REQUIRED**.
- **`XhciPortLimit`** - Needed **`DISABLE`** if you use Big Sur 11.3+. 
	- Please Mapping USB in macOS Catalina before install Big Sur or Newer for best results.
	- You can use USBMap.command Utility - [USBMap](https://github.com/corpnewt/USBMap).
- **`AvoidRuntimeDefrag`** - Big Sur may require this quirk enabled.
- **`RebuildAppleMemoryMap`** - Please `**ENABLE**` if UEFI Environment or boot OS X 10.4 through 10.6.
- **`AppleCpuPmCfgLock`** - Please `**ENABLE**` if you cannot disable`CFG-Lock` in BIOS.

# BIOS Settings

### Disable
- Fast Boot
- Secure Boot
- Serial/COM Port
- Parallel Port
- VT-d (can be enabled if you set `DisableIoMapper` to YES)
- Compatibility Support Module (CSM).
- Thunderbolt(For initial install, as Thunderbolt can cause issues if not setup correctly)
- Intel SGX
- Intel Platform Trust
- CFG Lock (MSR 0xE2 write protection).
	- This must be off, if you can't find the option then **`ENABLE`** `AppleCpuPmCfgLock`. 
	- Your hack will not boot with `CFG-Lock` enabled.

### Enable
- VT-x
- Above 4G decoding. 
	- This must be on, if you can't find the option then add `npci=0x2000` to `boot-args`. 
	- Do not have both this option and `npci` on `boot-args` enabled at the same time.
- Hyper-Threading
- Execute Disable Bit
- EHCI/XHCI Hand-off
- OS type: Windows 8.1/10 UEFI Mode
- DVMT Pre-Allocated(iGPU Memory): 32MB
- SATA Mode: AHCI

# References
https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config-HEDT/nehalem.html
<br>
https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/

Commit message:

Upgrade OC 0.7.7 (*.efi, *.kext, *.plist)

README.md, after:

# BASE EFI Intel Westmere (HEDT)

Note|Description
:----|:----
Initial macOS Support|OS X 10.5.6, Leopard.

- Opencore version: 0.7.7
- Release date: 10/01/2022

# Basic Steps

1. [Download](https://github.com/luchina-gabriel/BASE-EFI-INTEL-HEDT-1STGEN-X59-WESTMERE/releases) the latest release;
2. Includes **additional** kexts (for ethernet, audio, etc);
3. Include the **necessary** ACPI patches (.aml);
4. Review the special notes;
5. Generate and complete your SMBIOS infos - **ALWAYS**;
6. Adjust your BIOS;
7. Install macOS and enjoy :)

# Features
- [x] Very light, very clean, basic files for your Hackintosh.
- [x] Made with latest OpenCore versions.
- [x] Two editions - *Release* and *Debug* Edition.
- [x] Updated montly with refresh versions of Opencore.

# Kexts included (**Required**)

Kext|Description
:----|:----
[Lilu.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/Lilu/releases)|Patch many processes, required for AppleALC, WhateverGreen, VirtualSMC and many other kexts.
[SMCProcessor.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/VirtualSMC/releases)|Used for monitoring CPU temperature, doesn't work on AMD CPU based systems.
[SMCSuperIO.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/VirtualSMC/releases)|Used for monitoring fan speed, doesn't work on AMD CPU based systems.
[VirtualSMC.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/VirtualSMC/releases)|Emulates the SMC chip found on real macs, without this macOS will not boot.<br>Alternative is FakeSMC which can have better or worse support, most commonly used on legacy hardware.
[WhateverGreen.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/WhateverGreen/releases)|Used for graphics patching, DRM fixes, board ID checks, framebuffer fixes, etc; all GPUs benefit from this kext.
[CpuTscSync.kext](https://github.com/lvs1974/CpuTscSync/releases)|Needed for syncing TSC on some of Intel's HEDT and server motherboards, without this macOS may be extremely slow or even unbootable.

# Other Kexts (not included)

Kexts for support Audio, Wifi, Ethernets and other devices.

### Audio

Kext|Description
:----|:----
[AppleALC.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/AppleALC/releases)|Used for AppleHDA patching, allowing support for the majority of on-board sound controllers.<br>AMD 15h/16h may have issues with this and Ryzen/Threadripper systems rarely have mic support.
[VoodooHDA.kext](https://sourceforge.net/projects/voodoohda/)|Audio for FX systems and front panel Mic+Audio support for Ryzen system, do not mix with AppleALC.<br>Audio quality is noticeably worse than AppleALC on Zen CPUs.

### Ethernet
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[IntelMausi.kext](https://github.com/acidanthera/IntelMausi/releases)|Intel's 82578, 82579, I217, I218 and I219 NICs are officially supported.
[AtherosE2200Ethernet.kext](https://github.com/Mieze/AtherosE2200Ethernet/releases)|Required for Atheros and Killer NICs.<br>**Note**: Atheros Killer E2500 models are actually Realtek based, for these systems please use RealtekRTL8111 instead.
[RealtekRTL8111.kext](https://github.com/Mieze/RTL8111_driver_for_OS_X/releases)|For Realtek's Gigabit Ethernet.<br>Sometimes the latest version of the kext might not work properly with your Ethernet. If you see this issue, try older versions.
[LucyRTL8125Ethernet.kext](https://www.insanelymac.com/forum/files/file/1004-lucyrtl8125ethernet/)|For Realtek's 2.5Gb Ethernet.
[SmallTreeIntel82576.kext](https://github.com/khronokernel/SmallTree-I211-AT-patch/releases)| Required for I211 NICs, based off of the SmallTree kext but patched to support I211.<br>Required for most AMD boards running Intel NICs.

### WiFi and Bluetooth
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[AirportItlwm](https://github.com/OpenIntelWireless/itlwm/releases)|Adds support for a large variety of Intel wireless cards and works natively in recovery thanks to IO80211Family integration.
[IntelBluetoothFirmware](https://github.com/OpenIntelWireless/IntelBluetoothFirmware/releases)|Adds Bluetooth support to macOS when paired with an Intel wireless card.
[AirportBrcmFixup](https://github.com/acidanthera/AirportBrcmFixup/releases)|Used for patching non-Apple/non-Fenvi Broadcom cards, will not work on Intel, Killer, Realtek, etc.<br>For Big Sur see [Big Sur Known Issues](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/extras/big-sur#known-issues) for extra steps regarding AirPortBrcm4360 drivers.
[BrcmPatchRAM](https://github.com/acidanthera/BrcmPatchRAM/releases)|Used for uploading firmware on Broadcom Bluetooth chipset, required for all non-Apple/non-Fenvi Airport cards.

### USB
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[USBInjectAll](https://github.com/daliansky/OS-X-USB-Inject-All/releases)|Used for injecting Intel USB controllers on systems without defined USB ports in ACPI.<br>All Intel chipset series.<br>Requires OS X 10.11 or newer.
[XHCI-unsupported](https://github.com/daliansky/OS-X-USB-Inject-All/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)|Needed for non-native USB controllers.<br>Common chipsets needing this: H370, B360, H310, Z390(Not needed on Mojave and newer), X79, X99, AsRock boards(On Intel motherboards specifically, B460/Z490+ boards do not need it however).

### Others
Kext|Description
:----|:----
[NVMeFix](https://github.com/acidanthera/NVMeFix/releases)|Used for fixing power management and initialization on non-Apple NVMe.
[SATA-Unsupported](https://github.com/khronokernel/Legacy-Kexts/blob/master/Injectors/Zip/SATA-unsupported.kext.zip)|Adds support for a large variety of SATA controllers, mainly relevant for laptops which have issues seeing the SATA drive in macOS.<br>We recommend testing without this first.
[AppleMCEReporterDisabler](https://github.com/acidanthera/bugtracker/files/3703498/AppleMCEReporterDisabler.kext.zip)|Useful starting with Catalina to disable the AppleMCEReporter kext which will cause kernel panics on AMD CPUs.<br>Recommended for dual-socket systems (ie. Intel Xeons).
[RestrictEvents](https://github.com/acidanthera/RestrictEvents/releases)|Better experience with unsupported processors like AMD, Disable MacPro7,1 memory warnings and provide upgrade to macOS Monterey via Software Updates when available.

# ACPI Tables - High End Desktop

These files are **MUST** be included in your EFI's ACPI directory. We recommend that you use the **MANUAL** method, but for a first test you can use the prebuild versions.

Table|Description
:----|:----
SSDT-EC|[Manual](https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/Universal/ec-methods/manual.html) \| [Prebuilt](https://github.com/dortania/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/raw/master/extra-files/compiled/SSDT-EC-DESKTOP.aml) \| [Details](https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/Universal/ec-fix.html)

### Dumping your DSDT in Windows Environment
[Download iASL Compiler ACPI Tools](https://acpica.org/downloads/binary-tools)
<br><br>
Open the CMD in the directory where the *ACPI Tools* was extracted. (*Command Prompt*) in **Administrator Mode**:
```
path/to/acpidump.exe -b -n DSDT -z
move dsdt.dat DSDT.aml
```

Decompile DSDT.aml:
```
path/to/iasl.exe path/to/DSDT.aml
```
*File DSDT.dsl will generated. Use this for generate YOUR ACPI Patches.* 

Compile DSDT.dsl:
```
path/to/iasl.exe path/to/DSDT.dsl
```
*File APCPI_FILE_PATCHED.aml will generated.*

# Attention

Update **config.plist** in PlatformInfo > Generic with YOUR informations.
<br><br>
*1. MLB (Board Serial)
<br>
2. ROM (Mac Address)
<br>
3. SystemSerialNumber (Serial)
<br>
4. SystemUUID (SmUUID)*

Please use [*genSMBIOS*](https://github.com/corpnewt/GenSMBIOS/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) for generate values for above itens.
<br>
Please use [*ProperTree*](https://github.com/corpnewt/ProperTree/archive/refs/heads/master.zip) for configure/edit your config.plist.

# Compatible SMBIOS

SMBIOS|Description
:----|:----
MacPro5,1|Mojave and older
MacPro6,1|Catalina and newer

# Catalina and older versions of macOS

- Please configure `MinDate` and `MinVersion` in UEFI > APFS to `-1`;
- Please configure `SecureBootModel` in Misc > Security to `j137`;

\* *Without above settings, macOS will not be able to boot.*

# Special notes

- USB port mapping is **REQUIRED**.
- **`XhciPortLimit`** - Needed **`DISABLE`** if you use Big Sur 11.3+. 
	- Please Mapping USB in macOS Catalina before install Big Sur or Newer for best results.
	- You can use USBMap.command Utility - [USBMap](https://github.com/corpnewt/USBMap).
- **`AvoidRuntimeDefrag`** - Big Sur may require this quirk enabled.
- **`RebuildAppleMemoryMap`** - Please `**ENABLE**` if UEFI Environment or boot OS X 10.4 through 10.6.
- **`AppleCpuPmCfgLock`** - Please `**ENABLE**` if you cannot disable`CFG-Lock` in BIOS.

# BIOS Settings

### Disable
- Fast Boot
- Secure Boot
- Serial/COM Port
- Parallel Port
- VT-d (can be enabled if you set `DisableIoMapper` to YES)
- Compatibility Support Module (CSM).
- Thunderbolt(For initial install, as Thunderbolt can cause issues if not setup correctly)
- Intel SGX
- Intel Platform Trust
- CFG Lock (MSR 0xE2 write protection).
	- This must be off, if you can't find the option then **`ENABLE`** `AppleCpuPmCfgLock`. 
	- Your hack will not boot with `CFG-Lock` enabled.

### Enable
- VT-x
- Above 4G decoding. 
	- This must be on, if you can't find the option then add `npci=0x2000` to `boot-args`. 
	- Do not have both this option and `npci` on `boot-args` enabled at the same time.
- Hyper-Threading
- Execute Disable Bit
- EHCI/XHCI Hand-off
- OS type: Windows 8.1/10 UEFI Mode
- DVMT Pre-Allocated(iGPU Memory): 32MB
- SATA Mode: AHCI

# References
https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config-HEDT/nehalem.html
<br>
https://dortania.github.io/Getting-Started-With-ACPI/
